Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at the particular details
of a specific commit within GitHub. I'm currently logged into GitHub,
and I'm on the website GitHub repository; in particular I'm in the commit history.
If you don't know how to get there, on the main page of the
GitHub repository click on the "commits" tab.
I'm going to go down and find a commit that I wish to find more information about.
This looks interesting. I can either click on the commit message itself,
or I can click on the button that contains the abbreviated SHA-1 commit id.
Let's use that approach first. Clicking on that button
brings us to this specific commit page, which tells us exactly what happened.
It tells us that this commit was done on Master; and this is the full commit id;
and that it had a single parent, which was the commit prior to it.
I could go directly to that commit id if I wanted to; let's scroll down.
GitHub tells me there was one file changed with this commit,
which had "5 additions and 0 deletions."
If there was anything to compare against besides new file content,
I could go over to the split view. Let's go back to unified.
Within the unified view, I have the ability to add comments in-line
to the changes that are associated with this commit.
I can hover over the beginning of the line,
between the line number and the actual line content itself; that displays a plus mark.
Click on the plus mark, and it provides us an opportunity to leave a comment.
I'm allowed to leave Markdown formatted comments;
if I go to preview, you can see what the preview would be.
Once you're happy with the comment for that particular line, click on "Comment",
and it shows that particular comment in-line, along with whoever left that particular comment.
I have the ability to edit this comment, or delete the comment entirely.
Let's edit the comment. I'm going to copy this for later.
I'm going to add emphasis to the word better.
Once you've done that, click on "Update comment".
Now, we see the emphasis on the word better.
At some point, I can say "Well, maybe this comment wasn't appropriate for this particular area."
I can click on this to delete the message.
GitHub is going to prompt me to make sure I really want to do this; click on OK.
Now the comment has disappeared. If I wanted to, I could leave a comment
that pertains to the entire change, as opposed to a specific line.
So, we're going to paste in what I copied before.
Again, the preview shows the Markdown version of this file.
Now, I'm going to comment on the commit as a whole.
You could use this mechanism to have discussions about various changes,
or do even a code review. Great.
If I needed to, I could click on the button for "View";
this will view this entire file at this particular point in history.
And we know that because this dropdown changed from master branch
to tree colon the commit id that we're on.
I always have the option to go to the current version of this file on master
by just clicking on the branch. Let's go back to history.
While we're on this file, we see the history as it pertains to just this file.
While we're on this file, it actually updates the badge
to show that we have a single comment pertaining to this commit.
I'm going to click on the name of the repository,
and then click on commits to get back to the commit history.